This time I start here and
I go to to the left because
that is the positive gradient.
And I'm going to get to
the top of the global maximum.
>> But what's the chance that you're
going to get to global maximum on your
second attempt?
>> Better than just with my first
attempt, but I see what you mean.
We're computer scientists and
we have computer power to burn.
We can just do lots of random restarts,
hill climb
until we reach the local peak, and then
take the maximum of all the iterations.
>> How do you know you've
done enough examples?
>> Well, let's just do lots.
It's inefficient, but as our number of
samples goes to infinity it should work.
>> Well, you could be more efficient and
keep track of the places on
the graph you've been before, and
restart the sample whenever you see
you've gotten to the same place.
That trick is called a taboo search,
as in it's taboo to go
somewhere you've already been.
>> Well I could also just keep
a list of all the local maxima and
try to get an idea of the general
shape of the problem, and try
to predict where a new maximum might be,
given the areas I haven't explored yet.
>> That sounds like a variant
of the stage algorithm.
>> So what you're saying is that random
restart seems like a good idea in
general, given that there are all these
improvements that have been made.
>> Yup, let's try a quiz on
what we've learned so far.